# Daily Study Log — YYYY-MM-DD

## 📚 What I Worked On
- core skills needed for 2026: 
    1. AI - learn to leverage AI
    2. Linux - my main workstation and Personal computer runs on linux
    3. programming: python, golang, rust - python first
    4. networking - CCNA will open dorrs for you 
    5. Cloud
    6. virtualization: VMs, docker, kubernetes 
- tryhackme windows labs 
- ticketing system workflows 

## 🧠 What I Learned / Key Takeaways
- vibe coding - newer term that's emerged with AI agents and assistants - refers to relying heavily on AI to code while you focus on feel, direction, and other higher level tasks.
    - vibe coding **MUST BE REVIEWED** by humans
- networking is still an extremely viable option. 
- jira, zendesk, servicenow  
- tasklist /FI "imagename eq sshd.exe"     Note that /FI is used to set the filter image name equals sshd.exe
- /? can be used with most commands to display a help page
- shutdown /s = shutdown 
- shutdown /r = restart 
- shutdown /a = abort

## 🛠 Commands / Tools Practiced
- ver, systeminfo, set (shows PATH)
- systeminfo |more
- driverquery, driveryquery |more = displays a list of installed device drivers 
- tracert
- nslookup
- netstat -anob 
    -a displays all established connections and listening ports
    -b shows the program associated with each listening port and established connection
    -o reveals the process ID (PID) associated with the connection
    -n uses a numerical form for addresses and port numbers
- ss -tulpn, ss -tunap linux equivalent of netstat and the replacement for netstat in linux env
    -t = TCP
    -u = UDP
    -n = numeric
    -a = all
    -p = show PID/program name (requires sudo for other users' processes)

- dir /a displays hidden and system files as well 
- dir /s displays current and all subdirectory files 
- mkdir, rmdir 
- type <filename.txt> = equivalent of cat in linux env
- copy - allows you to copy files from one location to another 
    copy test.txt test2.txt
    We can use the wildcard character * to refer to multiple files. For example, copy *.md C:\Markdown will copy all files with the extension md to the directory C:\Markdown.
- move test.txt ..
- del, erase 
- tasklist - list running processes - tasklist /? to list all filters as sometimes tasklist can be very long 
- taskkill 
- taskkill /PID target_pid
- chkdsk: checks the file system and disk volumes for errors and bad sectors.
- sfc /scannow: scans system files for corruption and repairs them if possible. 
- 

## ❓ Questions I Still Have / Topics To Review
- look at cybersecrutiy and AI
- look into AI, quantum computing.
- look into combining cybersecurity with the cloud and networking. 
- IoT security is going to be huge in the future - research that

## 🎯 Plan for Tomorrow
- ***READ YOUR SCRATCHPAD FROM TODAY!!!!***
- work on automation for real-world tasks
- work on cloud knowledge.
- python, python, python
- revisit ports and protocols
- ***LEARN CLOUD AND NETWORKING***
- look into the CCNA
